---
title: b'Batteries will spill acid all over in an accident'
permalink: b'wiki/Batteries_will_spill_acid_all_over_in_an_accident/'
layout: wiki
tags:
 - Batteries
---

Lead-acid batteries are constructed from a lot of separate cells. One
cell generates 2 volts, so a 6-volt golf-cart battery has 3 cells, and
each of them contains some sulfuric acid. Quite likely, if such a
battery is impacted hard on an end or a corner, only one cell will be
breached. The most that you would expect is that some of the cells in
some of the batteries will be breached in a really bad accident, and
perhaps a gallon or so of acid could get spilled on the ground.

But acid is not flammable. And while it is spilling on the ground, you
do not need to touch it; you'll probably still be inside the car, if you
were wearing your seat belt, or thrown out away from the car if not.
Hopefully the battery compartment in your car is sealed from the
passenger compartment. If a hazmat team comes to clean up the spill
after your accident, they will probably just sprinkle baking soda on it
and then wash it away.

A full tank of gas, on the other hand, can quite literally become a
bomb. We've all seen plenty of this in the movies, and they are only
slightly exaggerating the effects of having hundreds of miles' worth of
fuel be burned all at once.

If you are designing and building your own car, a strong battery box is
an important safety feature. Usually they are built from welded angle
iron, and it is very good if you can have each battery supported by
angle iron on both sides. There must be hold-down straps or brackets
which are sufficient to restrain the batteries from flying out, in any
accident imaginable. Quite likely you will need to fully enclose the
battery box, to keep them warmer in the winter, and keep them clean and
dry all year, and for this some relatively flimsy sheet material
(plastic or metal or wood) can be used, but the structural stability is
the most important part. The batteries should be supported by a welded
frame which is welded in place and has become part of the frame of the
car.
