---
title: b'Business plan for the Freedom EV'
permalink: b'wiki/Business_plan_for_the_Freedom_EV/'
layout: wiki
---

Freedom Electric Vehicles

Business Plan

Mission statement: To take steps that lead to successful production of
an electric vehicle, in quantities of more than one, in varieties to
satisfy varying needs of potential customers, all of which are safe,
practical, marketable and appealing vehicles which will last
indefinitely--given suitable attention to maintenance.

To establish an organization to achieve this in the following form,
using the Internet as the unifying web to allow people in different
locations with different skill sets and other assets, to participate. A
phased organization, starting as a loose group of folks with similar
interests. After certain criteria are met: (fill in the
blanks)\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_, A new form
will be chosen by concensus. Once achieving predetermined goals for the
second phase, a third form will be required the shape of which will be
determined by successes or failures and other conditions as exist at
that time.

First things first:

Establish a group and name it.

Appoint/elect/drawstraws for people to 'run' it.

Take care of legalities and other technicalities: bank accounts,
websites, Wiki, plan a reporting feedback infrastructure, etc.

Set down some fundamentals that define the effort and the product and
the group (safe economical practical vehicles, quality guarantees,
volunteer format in phase one, etc.)

Define the general characteristics that might contribute such

`     qualities to the product.`

Define some specific features or attributes that might be included in
the product.

Establish a demographic or market the initial product will be aimed at.

Design the initial product.

Plan the production facility/mechanism (i.e. factory, subcontract,
combination--whatever).

Concurrently, assess your assets, human, financial, time, etc.

Assign/allocate your assets to achieve specific goals.

Establish milestones and/or deadlines by which to measure progress.

Monitor process, evaluate progress, plan necessary changes, plan new
products and/or ventures.

Repeat until everyone is exhausted, quits, or dies (rich).
