Until 2006, taxpayers who purchased electric cars could claim up to a $4,000 tax credit through the Qualified Electric Vehicle Credit on IRS form 8834.

In 2006, this deduction was reduced to $1,000, and now it is gone.

In the past, Senator Rockefeller and Representative Camp – and others – have proposed legislation that would have restored and even enhanced this tax credit. None of these measures passed; I suspect this is in part because since the 2003 rewrite of California’s Zero Emissions Vehicle Mandate, no car companies offer electric cars for sale anyway.
Meanwhile, the Energy Policy Act of 2005 created new tax credits for purchasers of hybrid cars – up to $3,400 for a car that still, in fact, burns gasoline and emits CO2. (This is the piece of legislation described by Bill Ford as the “buy Japanese” bill.) Please don’t misunderstand me: hybrids are fine – they usually do have higher gas mileage than their non-hybrid equivalents. But in the end, they are gasoline-powered cars. The only way to put energy into your Prius is through its gas tank.

However, a real electric car does a whole lot more to reduce our dependence on foreign oil and to reduce our emissions of greenhouse gasses than any hybrid ever can. We should be encouraging new car buyers to consider an electric car instead of a gasoline car – even instead of a hybrid.

For this reason must be reconsidered some of what Senator Rockefeller proposed in his Alternative Fuel Promotion Act a 
few years back:
# Reinstate the electric vehicle (EV) tax credit and increase this credit for advanced technology electric vehicles. Specifically, provide a tax credit of 10% of the EV purchase price, up to $4,000, with an additional $5,000 credit for any EV that has at least a 100-mile range. Do not sunset this credit sooner than 4 years.
# Give a tax deduction (not a credit) for the cost of installation of charging stations.
# Continue to provide states the authority to allow single occupant, electric fuel vehicles in high occupancy vehicle (HOV) lanes, independently of allocations for hybrid access to these lanes.

== References ==
* http://finance.senate.gov/hearings/testimony/2007test/050107testme.pdf

[[Category:taxes]]