The EVProduction club began life as a [http://groups.yahoo.com/group/EVProduction/ Yahoo mailing list].  The current plan is to collect dues from members to fund the club's projects.

==EVProduction club members:==
<small>(please hit the "edit" tab and add your name here only if you are a member.  Save this page.  Then, click on your name, and tell us about yourself!)</small>

*[[Jerry Dycus]]
*[[Lee Hart]]
*[[Shawn Rutledge]]
*[[Chris Seeley]]
*[[Daniel Richer]]
*[[Matthew Ritchie]]
*[[Fred Whitridge]]
*[[Richard Danzey]]
*[[Mike Skelly]]

John Foster
Vancouver BC Canada

I work on the floor at Dynasty Electric Car Co. www.itiselectric.com
We build the "IT" line of Neighbourhood Electric Vehicles. 

I would like to see "real" electric transport replace SUV's as soon as possible. But when that does happen, I hope I'll still be getting around on the unbeatable combo of transit & my folding bike ;) !

I live with my wife Wendy, 8 year old Aki, and 2 year old Agnes, &  don't have much energy left over to do the zillion projects I have in my head, in the shed and on sketches.

I have an Electrical Engineering degree, but I'm not exactly what you'd call upwardly mobile! Past carrers include "instrumentation and controls"/ industrial automation (making a few rich, and putting everyone else into poverty), non-destructive testing (scamming a bit of money back from the rich by performing mostly useless testing), a bit of electronics, and what I liked best, bicycle mechanic.

At work I glue, assemble, help organize the team and the parts flow, design a few electrical and mechanical improvements here & there, some trouble-shooting, and grind a hell of a lot of fiberglass.

At home I'd like to get time to start a few electrathon cars to give the kids a break from running wild & shooting each other.

My local EV scene: www.veva.bc.ca