__NOTOC__ __NOEDITSECTION__ <!--
***************************************************************************

   Do not ask your question on this page! Rather, go to one of the
   listed pages instead.

   This page is among the most visible to viewers and the rest of the web.

   Please keep it very simple. Do not make major changes without first
   achieving a consensus on the talk page:
   http://www.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia_talk:Questions)

***************************************************************************
-->
{| 
|- valign=top
| style="width:50%; background:#F5FAFF;"|
=== Finding information ===
* '''[[EVPWiki:Look it up|Search]]''' — for many questions it's fastest and easiest to use the search box.

<span style="font-size:90%;margin-left:2em;">e.g. To find the capital of South Africa, fill in ''South Africa'' in the box on the left and click ''Search''.</span>
* '''[[Wikipedia:Reference desk|Reference Desks]]''' — for knowledge questions (about anything other than how to use Wikipedia) you can ask our volunteers.

<span style="font-size:90%;margin-left:2em;"> e.g. ''"What country has the world's largest fishing fleet?"''</span>
:[[Wikipedia:Reference desk/Computing|Computing]] - [[Wikipedia:Reference desk/Entertainment|Entertainment]] - [[Wikipedia:Reference desk/Language|Language]] - [[Wikipedia:Reference desk/Humanities|Humanities]] - [[Wikipedia:Reference desk/Mathematics|Mathematics]] - [[Wikipedia:Reference desk/Science|Science]] - [[Wikipedia:Reference desk/Miscellaneous|Miscellaneous]]
| style="width:50%; background:#F5FAFF;"|
=== How to use Wikipedia ===
{{shortcut|[[WP:?]]<br>[[WP:Q]]<br>[[WP:DESK]]}}
* '''[[Wikipedia:FAQ|FAQ]]''' — Frequently Asked Questions about Wikipedia
* '''[[Help:Contents]]''' — information about using Wikipedia.

<span style="font-size:90%;margin-left:2em;"> e.g. ''"How do I add an image to an article?"''</span>
* '''[[Wikipedia:Help desk|Help Desk]]''' — the place to ask volunteers questions on how to use Wikipedia.
*'''[[Wikipedia:New contributors' help page|New contributors' help page]]''' — a range of services to answer newcomers' questions.
*'''[[Wikipedia:Media copyright questions|Media copyright questions]]''' - a place to ask questions on this topic in particular
|-
| style="width:50%; background:#F5FAFF;"|
=== Asking questions or making comments ===
* Each article has a '''[[Wikipedia:Talk page|Talk page]]''' — click on the '''article's''' '''''discussion''''' link at the top of the page &mdash; for questions, reporting vandalism or discussions about the article.
* '''[[Wikipedia:Village pump|Village pump]]''' is '''the''' discussion forum for many '''technical and policy issues'''.
| style="width:50%; background:#F5FAFF;"|
=== IRC — help chat ===
You are also welcome to ask questions in one of Wikipedia's [[Internet Relay Chat|IRC]] channels. If you have an [[Comparison of Internet Relay Chat clients|IRC client]] installed you can join a channel by connecting to [irc://irc.freenode.net/wikipedia-en-help '''#wikipedia-en-help'''] (a help channel for new Wikipedians) or [irc://irc.freenode.net/wikipedia '''#wikipedia'''] (for general chat). You can also use the '''[http://www.prism.gatech.edu/~mflaschen3/irc/ web-based client]''' to be connected instantly.
|}