{{TOCRight}}
{{main|Wikipedia:Searching}}

The quickest way to find information here is to look it up directly. On the left-hand side of your screen there is a '''Search''' box with two buttons under it labeled "Go" and "Search". Just type something into the box, like Bicycle, and press enter or click the '''Go''' button. This will take you directly to Wikipedia's article on [[Bicycle]]. There you will most likely find answers to every question you ever had about bikes, and quite a few you didn't. If you have any problems, the rest of this article suggests ways to solve them.

You may also try it here: <inputbox>type=search</inputbox>

== Dictionary definitions and sister projects ==
If you're looking for a dictionary definition, our sister project [http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/Main_Page Wiktionary] is a good choice.  For definitions of terms used in Wikipedia, see [[Wikipedia:Glossary]] and [[Wikipedia:Tutorial/Glossary]].

[http://wikimediafoundation.org/wiki/Our_projects We have many other sister projects.]

== Other search engines ==
If no such article exists, or if you accidentally press the '''Search''' button instead of the '''Go''' button, [[Wikipedia:Searching|our search engine]] will do its best to help you along. If that doesn't work well for you, you could try an [[Wikipedia:Searching#External_search_engines|external search engine]].

Popular search engines, such as [[AltaVista]], [[Google]], or [[Yahoo]] may return better results and have more powerful search commands than the version of [[MediaWiki]] used for Wikipedia.  Sometimes Wikipedia search capabilities are curtailed to allow for faster response time.

For example, on Google, adding a space and the word wikipedia to the end of a web search query is likely to find relevant wikipedia pages.

== Disambiguation and redirection ==
You may type in something like [[Plaque]], which takes you to a list of the many things you could mean by it. This is called a [[Wikipedia:Disambiguation|disambiguation page]], and it's there to make things easier for you. If it wasn't for that, you'd have to read our minds and know exactly what multiword phrase we'd thought of for each possible meaning of a common word or phrase.

Some things can be called by many names. The [[Flag of the United States]], for instance, could be called the [[American Flag]], the [[US Flag]], or any of a dozen similar things. In this case, if you type any of those in, you will be [[Wikipedia:Redirect|redirected]] to the proper place.  (You're welcome.) If instead of being redirected you're taken to a search menu, that means that no editor has anticipated the way you phrased what you were looking.  In that case, just try another word or wording, or try something related like [[Flag]] or [[USA]]. Once you have found what you were looking for, consider adding [[Wikipedia:Redirect|redirect pages]] for the expressions you tried that didn't turn up anything. Chances are you're not the only one thinking about it this way, so you'll make life easier for those after you.

== Search box location ==
It's possible, due to a different [[Wikipedia:Skin|skin]] or unusual display device, that the search box will not be on the left. Just look around the screen and you'll find it.

[[Category:EVPWiki basic information|Look it up]]
[[Category:EVPWiki features|Look it up]]