---
title: b'Golf cart'
permalink: b'wiki/Golf_cart/'
layout: wiki
tags:
 - Golf equipment
 - Electric vehicles
---

![A Lamborghini built golf
cart](Lamborghini1.jpg "A Lamborghini built golf cart")

A **golf cart** (sometimes referred to as a **golf car** [1]) is a small
[vehicle](vehicle "wikilink") designed originally to carry two
[golfers](golf "wikilink") and their [golf
clubs](/wiki/Golf_club_(equipment) "wikilink") around a [golf
course](golf_course "wikilink") faster and with less effort than
[walking](walking "wikilink").

Golf cars now come in a wide range of formats and are more generally
used to convey small numbers of passengers short distances at relatively
medium speeds (about 25 mph per [ANSI](/wiki/ANSI "wikilink") Standard
z130.1). They are generally 4' x 8' x 6' high and weigh 900-1,000
pounds.

Some golf cars are powered with small gas engines and others are
[electrically](electric_motor "wikilink") powered. These electric golf
cars were the first mass-produced [electric
vehicles](electric_vehicle "wikilink") for private consumer use. This
variety is now used in many communities where their lack of
[pollutants](pollutants "wikilink"), lack of [noise](noise "wikilink"),
and safety for pedestrians and other cars (due to slow speeds, although
capable of much higher speeds with modifications not sanctioned by the
original manufacturers for liability reasons) are beneficial. When
purpose-built for general [transportation](transport "wikilink") these
are called [Neighborhood Electric
Vehicles](/wiki/Neighborhood_electric_vehicle "wikilink") (NEVs), but with
various operating limitations such as top speed and heavy regulation on
which type of streets these types of cars are permitted to be used.
These may resemble the golf cars shown above, although some are now
being made with all–weather car–like bodies.

At press time, the leading manufacturer of golf cars in the [United
States](/wiki/United_States "wikilink") is [Ingersoll
Rand](/wiki/Ingersoll_Rand "wikilink") Corporation's [Club
Car](/wiki/Club_Car "wikilink") division.

Modern golf cars may have car-like styling (despite being no bigger than
a traditional golf car), and accessories such as audio [entertainment
systems](entertainment_system "wikilink"), custom wheels with spinners,
and custom body panels in a wide assortment of colors.

There is a very large market for aftermarket parts on golf cars from
many companies. There are 3 main maufacturers of golf cars: Club Car,
E-Z-GO, and Yamaha. Each have their own lines of aftermarket parts to
enhance off road capabilities (such as lift kits, larger tires with
aggressive tread patterns, etc.). From third parties, there are also
kits available that facilitate the installation of a larger engine (such
as a Honda 24 HP V-Twin engine or a Briggs & Stratton engine ranging in
sizes from 16-31HP). There are also parts made to help in towing, such
as hitch mounts, cargo boxes, radios, high-performance mufflers and air
filters, high speed or torque gear sets, and custom paint/decal sets.
There is even a "Hummer" golf car available from many dealers for around
$25,000.00 US dollars. [Buggies Gone
Wild](http://www.buggiesgonewild.com) is one site dedicated to the ever
expanding golf cart community.

[Peachtree City](/wiki/Peachtree_City "wikilink"),
[Georgia](/wiki/Georgia_(U.S._state) "wikilink") has numerous miles of golf
cart paths that link the city together. Golf cart travel is used by a
great majoriy of the community, especially among high school students.
[McIntosh High School](/wiki/McIntosh_High_School "wikilink") even has a
student golf cart parking lot on campus.

References
----------

<references />

[1] [ANSI
z130.1](http://www.ansi.org/news_publications/media_tips/golf.aspx?menuid=7)
