---
title: b'Nickel-cadmium battery'
permalink: b'wiki/Nickel-cadmium_battery/'
layout: wiki
tags:
 - Rechargeable batteries
 - Nickel|Cadmium battery
 - Cadmium
---

The **nickel-cadmium battery** (commonly abbreviated **NiCd** and
pronounced "nye-cad") is a popular type of [rechargeable
battery](rechargeable_battery "wikilink") for portable
[electronics](electronics "wikilink") and [toys](toy "wikilink") using
the metals [nickel](nickel "wikilink") (Ni) and
[cadmium](cadmium "wikilink") (Cd) as the active chemicals. The
abbreviation NiCad is a registered trademark of SAFT corporation and
should not be used to refer generically to nickel-cadmium batteries.
Although, much of this brand-name identification has been relegated in
the public eye to define all nickel-cadmium batteries. They are
sometimes used as a replacement for *[primary
cells](primary_cell "wikilink")*, such as heavy duty or
[alkaline](/wiki/Alkaline_battery "wikilink"), being available in many of the
same sizes. In addition, specialty NiCd batteries have a niche market in
the area of cordless and wireless [telephones](telephone "wikilink"),
[emergency lighting](emergency_light "wikilink"), model airplanes, as
well as [power tools](power_tool "wikilink").

Due to their beneficial weight/energy ratio as compared to
[lead](lead "wikilink") based technologies and good service lifetimes,
nickel-cadmium batteries of large capacities with a wet electrolyte
(**wet NiCds**) are used for [electric cars](electric_car "wikilink")
and as start [batteries](aircraft_battery "wikilink") for
[airplanes](/wiki/Fixed-wing_aircraft "wikilink").

Nickel-cadmium cells have a nominal cell potential of
1.2 [V](/wiki/Volt "wikilink"). This is lower than the 1.5 V of many popular
primary cells, and consequently they are not appropriate as a
replacement in all applications. However, unlike most primary cells,
NiCds keep a near constant voltage throughout their service life.
Because many electronic devices are designed to work throughout the
lifetime of the battery, they must operate on voltages as low as 0.90 to
1.0 V per cell, and the 1.2 V of a NiCd is more than enough. Some would
consider the near constant voltage a drawback, as it makes it difficult
to detect when the battery charge is low; this is usually a minor
concern. Despite their lower nominal voltage, NiCds are better suited
for high current applications. Due to a significantly lower [internal
resistance](internal_resistance "wikilink"), they can supply high surge
currents. This makes them a favourable choice for [remote
controlled](remote_control "wikilink") electric model aeroplanes, boats
and cars, as well as cordless power tools and camera flash units.

Besides 1.2 V single cells, 7.2, 9.6, and 12 V NiCd batteries made up of
several cells connected in series are widely available. The 7.2 V
batteries are the most common replacement for 9 V primary batteries,
although 8.4 V batteries have been made by some manufacturers, e.g.,
[VARTA](/wiki/VARTA "wikilink"), to better match the performance of
carbon-zinc and alkaline "[transistor
radio](transistor_radio "wikilink")" batteries.

This article deals only with sealed cells. See also [vented cell NiCd
batteries](/wiki/Nickel-cadmium_battery_vented_cell_type "wikilink").

History
-------

Waldemar Jungner of [Sweden](/wiki/Sweden "wikilink") created the first
nickel-cadmium battery in [1899](1899 "wikilink"). At that time the only
direct competitor was the [lead-acid
battery](lead-acid_battery "wikilink") which was less physically and
chemically robust. With minor improvements to the first prototypes,
energy density rapidly increased to about half of that of primary
batteries, and significantly better than lead-acid batteries.

In 1906, Jungner established a factory in Sweden[1] to initially produce
industrial [nickel-iron](/wiki/Nickel-iron_battery "wikilink") and later
nickel-cadmium batteries. The first production in the [United
States](/wiki/United_States "wikilink") began in 1946. Up to this point, the
batteries were "pocket type," constructed of nickel-plated
[steel](steel "wikilink") pockets containing [nickel](nickel "wikilink")
and [cadmium](cadmium "wikilink") active materials. Around the middle of
the twentieth century, [sintered](sintered "wikilink") plate
nickel-cadmium batteries became increasingly popular. Fusing nickel
powder at a temperature well below its melting point, using high
pressures creates sintered plates. The plates thus formed are highly
porous, about 80 percent by volume. Positive and negative plates are
produced by soaking the nickel plates in nickel and cadmium active
materials, respectively. Sintered plates are usually much thinner than
the pocket type, resulting in greater surface area per volume, and
higher currents. In general, the more surface area of reactive materials
in a battery, the lower its [internal
resistance](internal_resistance#Batteries "wikilink"). In the past few
decades, this has resulted in nickel-cadmium batteries with internal
resistance as low as alkaline batteries. Today, all consumer
nickel-cadmium batteries use the "jelly-roll" design. This design
incorporates several layers of anode and cathode material rolled into a
cylindrical shape.

Advances in battery manufacturing technologies throughout the second
half of the twentieth century have made batteries increasingly cheaper
to produce. Battery-powered devices in general have increased in
popularity. As of 2000, about 1.5
[billion](1000000000_(number) "wikilink") nickel-cadmium batteries were
produced annually. While Ni-Cd never became widely used as a replacement
for [lead-acid batteries](lead-acid_batteries "wikilink") in the areas
where those batteries dominate, up until the mid
[1990s](1990s "wikilink"), Ni-Cds had an overwhelming majority of the
market share for rechargeable batteries in consumer electronics.
Recently, however, Nickel-Metal [Hydride](/wiki/Hydride "wikilink")
([Ni-MH](/wiki/Ni-MH "wikilink")) and lithium ion batteries
([Li-ion](/wiki/Li-ion "wikilink")) have become more commercially available
and cheaper, though still more expensive than Ni-Cds. Where energy
density is important, Ni-Cds batteries are at a distinct disadvantage
over Ni-MH and Li-ion batteries, especially when the cost of the battery
is small compared to the cost of the device, such as in [cell
phones](cell_phone "wikilink").

Battery Characteristics
-----------------------

### Comparison to Other Batteries

When compared to other forms of rechargeable battery, the nickel cadmium
battery has a number of distinct advantages. The batteries are more
difficult to damage than other batteries, tolerating deep discharge for
long periods. In fact, NiCd batteries in long-term storage are typically
stored fully discharged. This is in contrast, for example, to [lithium
ion batteries](lithium_ion_battery "wikilink"), which are highly
volatile and will be permanently damaged if discharged below a minimum
voltage. In addition, NiCd batteries typically last longer, in terms of
number of charge/discharge cycles, than other rechargeable batteries,
and have faster charge and discharge rates than lead-acid batteries,
with minimal loss of capacity even at high discharge rates.

The primary trade-off with NiCd batteries is their higher cost. They
require extra labor to manufacture, and thus, are typically more costly
than lead-acid batteries. Another disadvantage of NiCds is that certain
usage patterns may cause a "false bottom" effect. Specifically, if the
battery is consistently discharged to the same level, then fully
recharged, the battery will eventually stop discharging on its own upon
reaching this threshold. (See [memory effect](#Memory_effect "wikilink")
below for more details on this effect)

The most common alternative to NiCd batteries are [lead-acid
batteries](lead-acid_battery "wikilink"). Compared to these, NiCd
batteries have a much higher energy density. This means that, for a
given battery capacity, a NiCd battery is smaller and lighter than a
comparable lead-acid battery. In cases where size and weight are
important considerations (for example, some transportation
applications), NiCd batteries are preferred over the cheaper lead-acid
batteries.

In consumer applications, NiCd batteries compete directly with [alkaline
batteries](alkaline_battery "wikilink"). A NiCd cell has a lower
capacity than that of an equivalent alkaline cell, and costs slightly
more. However, since the alkaline battery's chemical reaction is
typically not reversible, a reusable NiCd battery has a significantly
longer total lifetime. There have been attempts to create rechargeable
alkaline batteries, such as [Rayovac](/wiki/Rayovac "wikilink")'s
[rechargeable alkaline](rechargeable_alkaline_battery "wikilink"),
*Renewal*, or specialized alkaline battery chargers, but none that has
seen wide usage. In addition, a NiCd battery maintains a constant
voltage as it discharges. Since an alkaline battery's voltage drops as
the charge drops, most consumer applications are well equipped to deal
with the slightly lower NiCd voltage with no noticeable loss of
performance.

**Nickel metal [hydride](hydride "wikilink") ([NiMH](/wiki/NiMH "wikilink"))**
batteries are the newest, and most similar, competitor to NiCd
batteries. Compared to NiCd, NiMH batteries have a higher capacity and
are less toxic, but are still slightly more expensive. In addition, a
NiCd battery has a lower self-discharge rate (for example, 20% per month
for a NiCd, versus 30% per month for a NiMH under identical conditions).
This results in a preference for NiCd over NiMH in applications where
the current draw on the battery is lower than the battery's own
self-discharge rate (for example, television remote controls) In both
types of cell, the self-discharge rate is highest for a full charge
state and drops off somewhat for lower charge states. In addition, like
alkaline batteries, NiMH batteries experience a voltage drop as it nears
full discharge, which a NiCd does not. Finally, a NiCd battery has a
slightly lower internal resistance, and thus can achieve a higher
maximum discharge rate (which can be important for applications such as
power tools)

### Availability

Consumer-grade NiCd cells are available in the same general purpose
sizes as [alkaline batteries](alkaline_batteries "wikilink"), from AAA
through D, as well as several multi-cell sizes, including the equivalent
of a 9 volt battery. Each cell has a nominal potential of 1.2 volts,
compared to the nominal 1.5 volt potential for alkaline batteries. More
specifically, a fully charged single NiCd cell, under no load, carries a
potential difference of between 1.25 and 1.35 volts, which stays
relatively constant as the battery is discharged. Since an alkaline
battery near fully discharged may see its voltage drop to as low as 0.9
volts, NiCd cells and alkaline cells are typically interchangeable for
most applications.

In addition to single cells, batteries exist that contain up to 300
cells (nominally 360 volts, actual voltage under no load between 380 and
420 volts). This many cells are mostly used in automotive and heavy duty
industrial applications. For portable applications, the number of cells
is normally below 18 cells (24 V). Industrial-sized flooded batteries
are available with capacities ranging from 12.5Ah up to several hundred
Ah.

Characteristics
---------------

The maximum discharge rate for a NiCd battery varies by size. For a
common [AA-size](/wiki/AA_battery "wikilink") cell, the maximum discharge rate
is approximately 18 amps; for a [D size](/wiki/D_battery "wikilink") battery
the discharge rate can be as high as 35 amps.

NiCd batteries can charge at several different rates, depending on how
the cell was manufactured. The charge rate is measured based on the
percentage of the amp-hour capacity the battery is fed as a steady
current over the duration of the charge. Regardless of the charge speed,
more energy must be supplied to the battery than its actual capacity, to
account for energy loss during charging, with faster charges being more
efficient. For example, the typical "overnight" charge, called a C/10
charge, is accomplished by applying 10% of the batteries total capacity
for a period of 16 hours; that is, a 100Ah battery takes 160Ah of energy
to charge at this rate. At the "fast charge" rate, done at 100% of the
rated capacity, the battery holds roughly 80% of the charge, so a 100Ah
battery takes 120Ah of energy to charge (that is, approximately 1 hour
and fifteen minutes) The downside to faster charging is the higher risk
of overcharging, which can damage the battery.[2]

The safe temperature range for a NiCd battery in use is between −20°C
and 45°C. During charging, the battery temperature typically stays low,
around 0°C (the charging reaction absorbs heat), but as the battery
nears full charge the temperature will rise to 45–50°C. Some battery
chargers detect this temperature increase to cut off charging and
prevent over-charging.

When not under load or charge, a NiCd batter will self-discharge
approximately 10% per month at 20°C, ranging up to 20% per month at
higher temperatures. It is possible to perform a "trickle charge" at
current levels just high enough to offset this discharge rate; to keep a
battery fully charged. However, if the battery is going to be stored
unused for a long period of time, it should be discharged down to at
most 40% of capacity (some manufacturers recommend fully discharging, or
even short-circuiting), and stored in a cool, dry environment.

### Inspecting

The battery should have no external damage and depending on the number
of cells it should have 1.2V per cell when fully charged and about
0.8–1V when discharged.

### Battery state

The larger NiCd’s contain a liquid much like flooded batteries while
smaller ones (e.g. those used in flashlights) are relatively "dry."

### Charge condition

High quality NiCd’s have a thermal cut-off so if the battery gets too
hot the charger stops. If a NiCd is still warm from discharging and been
put on charge, it will not get the full charge possible. In that case,
let the battery cool to room temperature then charge. Watch for the
correct polarity. Leave charger in a cool place or room temperature when
charging to get best results.

### Charging method

A NiCd battery requires a charger with a slightly different voltage
charge level than a lead-acid battery, especially if the NiCd has 11 or
12 cells. In addition, the charger requires a more intelligent charge
termination method if a fast charger is used. Often NiCd battery packs
have a thermal cut-off inside that feeds back to the charger telling it
to stop the charging once the battery has heated up and/or a voltage
peaking sensing circuit. At room temperature during normal charge
conditions the cell voltage increases from an initial 1.2 V to an
end-point of about 1.45 V. The rate of rise increases markedly as the
cell approaches full charge. The end-point voltage decreases slightly
with increasing temperature.

Chemistry
---------

NiCd batteries contain a [nickel hydroxide](nickel_hydroxide "wikilink")
positive [electrode](electrode "wikilink") plate, a
[cadmium](cadmium "wikilink") hydroxide negative electrode plate, a
separator, and an [alkaline](alkaline "wikilink")
[electrolyte](electrolyte "wikilink"). NiCd batteries usually have a
metal case with a sealing plate equipped with a self-sealing [safety
valve](safety_valve "wikilink"). The positive and negative electrode
plates, isolated from each other by the separator, are rolled in a
spiral shape inside the case.

The [chemical reaction](chemical_reaction "wikilink") which occurs in a
NiCd battery is:

2 NiO(OH) + Cd + 2 H<sub>2</sub>O ↔ 2 Ni(OH)<sub>2</sub> +
Cd(OH)<sub>2</sub>

This reaction goes from left to right during discharge, and from right
to left during charge. The alkaline electrolyte (commonly KOH) is not
consumed in this reaction and therefore its [Specific
Gravity](/wiki/Relative_density#Relative_Density_and_Hydrometers "wikilink"),
unlike Lead- Acid batteries, is not a guide to its state of charge.

When Jungner built the first nickel-cadmium batteries, he used nickel
oxide in the cathode and [iron](iron "wikilink") and cadmium materials
in the anode. It was not until later that pure cadmium metal and nickel
[hydroxide](hydroxide "wikilink") were used. Until about 1960, the
reaction in nickel-cadmium batteries was not completely understood.
There were several speculations as to the reaction products. The debate
was finally resolved by [spectrometry](spectrometry "wikilink"), which
revealed cadmium hydroxide and nickel hydroxide.

Another historically important variation on the basic nickel-cadmium
cell is the addition of [lithium](lithium "wikilink") hydroxide to the
potassium hydroxide electrolyte. This was believed to prolong the
service life by making the cell more resistant to electrical abuse. The
nickel-cadmium battery in its modern form is extremely resistant to
electrical abuse anyway, so this practice has been discontinued.

Overcharging must be considered in the design of most rechargeable
batteries. In the case of NiCds, there are two possible results of
overcharging. If the [anode](anode "wikilink") is overcharged,
[hydrogen](hydrogen "wikilink") gas is produced; if the
[cathode](cathode "wikilink") is overcharged,
[oxygen](oxygen "wikilink") gas is produced. For this reason, the anode
is always designed for a higher capacity than the cathode, to avoid
releasing hydrogen gas. There is still the problem of eliminating oxygen
gas, to avoid rupture of the cell casing. NiCd cells are vented, with
seals that fail at high internal gas pressures. The sealing mechanism
must allow gas to escape from inside the cell, and seal again properly
when the gas is expelled. This complex mechanism, unnecessary in
alkaline batteries, contributes to their higher cost.

Another potential problem is reverse charging. This can occur due to an
error by the user, or more commonly, when a battery of several cells is
fully discharged. Because there is a slight variation in the capacity of
cells in a battery, one of the cells will usually be fully discharged
before the others, at which point reverse charging begins seriously
damaging the other cells, reducing battery life. The by-product of
reverse charging is hydrogen gas, which can in some circumstances be
dangerous. Some commentators advise that one should never discharge
multi-cell nickel-cadmium batteries to zero voltage; for example,
torches should be turned off when they yellow, before they go out
completely.

Individual cells may be fully discharged to zero volts and some of the
battery manufacturers recommend this if the cells are to be stored for
lengthy intervals. At least one manufacturer even recommends
[short-circuiting](/wiki/Short_circuit "wikilink") each cell for storage.
However, it is normally recommended that NiCd Batteries be charged to
around 40% capacity for long-term storage.

NiCd batteries contain [cadmium](cadmium "wikilink"), which is a
[toxic](toxic "wikilink") [heavy metal](heavy_metals "wikilink") and
therefore requires special care during battery disposal. In the [United
States](/wiki/United_States "wikilink"), part of the price of a NiCd battery
is a fee for its proper disposal at the end of its service lifetime. In
the [European Union](/wiki/European_Union "wikilink"), the [Restriction of
Hazardous Substances
Directive](/wiki/Restriction_of_Hazardous_Substances_Directive "wikilink")
(RoHS) bans the use of cadmium in electrical and electronic equipment
products after July 2006, though NiCd batteries are not restricted.

Problems with NiCd
------------------

### Overcharge

NiCd cells dealt with in this article are of the sealed type (see also
[vented type](/wiki/Nickel-cadmium_battery_vented_cell_type "wikilink")).
Cells of this type consist of a pressure vessel that is supposed to
contain any generation of oxygen and hydrogen gassed until they can
recombine back to water. Such generation typically occurs during rapid
charge and discharge and exceedingly at overcharge condition. If the
pressure exceeds the limit of the safety valve, water in the form of gas
is lost. Since the vessel is designed to contain an exact amount of
electrolyte this loss will rapidly effect the capacity of the cell and
its ability to receive and deliver current. To detect all conditions of
overcharge demands great sophistication from the charging circuit and a
cheap charger will eventually damage even the best quality cells.[3]

### Cell reversal

A much more common form of this deprication occurs when cells connected
in series develop unequal voltages and discharge near zero voltage. The
first cell that reaches zero is pushed beyond to negative voltage and
gasses generated open the seal and dry the cell.

In modern cells an excess of 'anti-polar' material (basically active
material ballast at positive electrode) is inserted to allow for
moderate negative charge without damage to the cell. This excess
material slows down the start of oxygen generation at the negative
plate. This means a cell can survive a negative voltage of about -0.2 to
-0.4 volts. However if discharge is continued even further, this excess
ballast is used up and both electrodes change polarity, causing
destructive gas generation.

Battery packs with multiple cells in series should be operated well
above 1 volt per cell to avoid placing the lowest capacity cell in
danger of going negative. Battery packs that can be disassembled into
cells should be periodically zeroed and charged individually to equalize
the voltages. However, this does not help if old and new cells are
mixed, since their different capacities will result in different
discharge times and voltages.[4]

### Memory effect

  
*Main article: [Memory effect](/wiki/Memory_effect "wikilink")*

It is sometimes claimed that NiCd batteries suffer from a so-called
"[memory effect](memory_effect "wikilink")" if they are recharged before
they have been fully discharged. The apparent symptom is that the
battery "remembers" the point in its charge cycle where recharging began
and during subsequent use suffers a sudden drop in voltage at that
point, as if the battery had been discharged. The capacity of the
battery is not actually reduced substantially. Some electronics designed
to be powered by NiCds are able to withstand this reduced voltage long
enough for the voltage to return to normal. However, if the device is
unable to operate through this period of decreased voltage, the device
will be unable to get as much energy out of the battery, and for all
practical purposes, the battery has a reduced capacity.

There is controversy about whether the memory effect actually exists, or
whether it is as serious a problem as is sometimes believed. Some
critics claim it is used to promote competing [NiMH](/wiki/NiMH "wikilink")
batteries, which apparently suffer this effect to a lesser extent. Many
nickel-cadmium battery manufacturers deny the effect either exists or
are silent on the matter.

The memory effect story originated from orbiting satellites, where they
were typically charging for twelve hours out of twenty-four for several
years. After this time, it was found that the capacities of the
batteries had declined significantly, but were still perfectly fit for
use. It is thought unlikely that this precise repetitive charging (e.g.
1000 charges / discharges with less than 2% variability) would ever be
reproduced by consumers using electrical goods.

An effect with similar symptoms to the memory effect is the so-called
"lazy battery effect." (Some people use this term as a synonym for
"memory effect") This results from repeated overcharging; the symptom is
that the battery appears to be fully charged but discharges quickly
after only a brief period of operation. Sometimes, much of the lost
capacity can be recovered by a few deep discharge cycles, a function
often provided by automatic NiCd battery chargers. However, this process
may reduce the shelf life of the battery.[5] If treated well, a NiCd
battery can last for 1000 cycles or more before its capacity drops below
half its original capacity.

### Dendritic shorting

NiCd batteries, when not used regularly, tend to develop
[dendrites](dendrite_(metal) "wikilink") which are thin, conductive
crystals. This leads to internal short circuits and premature failure,
long before the 800–1000 charge/discharge cycle life claimed by most
vendors. Sometimes, applying a brief, high-current charging pulse to
individual cells can clear these dendrites, but they will typically
reform within a few days or even hours. Cells in this state have reached
the end of their useful life and should be replaced. Many battery
guides, circulating on the Internet and online auctions, promise to
restore dead cells using the above principle, but achieve very
short-term results at best.

### Environmental consequences

Cadmium, being a heavy metal, can cause substantial
[pollution](pollution "wikilink") when [landfilled](landfill "wikilink")
or [incinerated](/wiki/Incineration "wikilink"). Because of this, many
countries now operate [recycling](recycling "wikilink") programs to
capture and reprocess old NiCd batteries.

### Safety

-   Rayovac Safety Data Sheet[6]
-   Never [short-circuit](short-circuit "wikilink") the battery because
    this may cause the battery to explode. (A
    [short-circuit](short-circuit "wikilink") is a direct electrical
    connection between the + and – battery terminals, such as with a
    wire. You should not [short-circuit](short-circuit "wikilink") any
    type of battery.)
-   Never [incinerate](/wiki/Incineration "wikilink") NiCd batteries; besides
    the possibility of explosion, this will release toxic cadmium into
    the environment. Recycle the battery instead.
-   Avoid dropping, hitting, or denting the battery because this may
    cause internal damage including short-circuiting of the cell.
-   Avoid rapid overcharging of the battery; this may cause leakage of
    the electrolyte, outgassing, or possibly an explosion.

References
----------

<references />

-   Bergstrom, Sven. "Nickel-Cadmium Batteries — Pocket Type". Journal
    of the Electrochemical Society, September 1952. 1952 The
    Electrochemical Society.
-   Ellis, G. B., Mandel, H., and Linden, D. "Sintered Plate
    Nickel-Cadmium Batteries". Journal of the Electrochemical Society,
    September 1952. 1952 The Electrochemical Society.

See also
--------

-   [Vented cell type NiCd
    batteries](/wiki/Nickel-cadmium_battery_vented_cell_type "wikilink")
-   [Nickel-iron battery](/wiki/Nickel-iron_battery "wikilink")

External links
--------------

-   [BatteryUniversity.com](http://www.batteryuniversity.com/)
-   [Nicad.net](http://www.nicad.net/)

[1] [1](http://www.saftbatteries.com/000-corporate/pdf/60-06_eng.pdf)
Saft celebrates the 100th anniversary of its Oskarshamn battery plant

[2] [NiCad Battery Charging Basics](http://www.powerstream.com/NiCd.htm)

[3] [GP Nickel Cadmium Technical
Handbook](http://www.gpbatteries.co.uk/downloads/technical_handbooks/GP_NiCd_Technical.pdf)

[4] [GP Nickel Cadmium Technical
Handbook](http://www.gpbatteries.co.uk/downloads/technical_handbooks/GP_NiCd_Technical.pdf)

[5] [Dan's Quick Guide to Memory
Effect](http://www.dansdata.com/gz011.htm)

[6] [Rayovac Safety Data
Sheet](http://app.rayovac.com/cm/groups/public/documents/msds/007128.pdf)
