==Three Wheelers==
*Jerry Dycus's [[Freedom EV]]
*[http://www.3wheelers.com/enter.html 3 Wheeler site] As the tag line says "The online A-Z of 3-Wheelers".
*[http://www.rqriley.com/3-wheel.htm Three Wheel Cars] narrative by Robert Q. Riley. Subtitle is, "Primary Factors That Determine Handling & Rollover Characteristics"
*[http://home.clara.net/peterfrost/tryaneii.html Tryanne II] three wheeled, strip laid wooden three wheeler.
*danz' proposed first product effort: 3 wheeler, enclosed, 2 people, room for groceries or some bags of peat moss, a flat roof on which I can tie 2X4s, or a 4X8 sheet of plywood or drywall.  30 mile range, 60 mph max, integral trailer hitch for a 'pusher' or a gen set trailer or even a small cargo trailer.  Lowest cost possible consistent with safety, reliability, comfort and (some)convenience.  Aerodynamically unimportant--whatever is necessary to get the speed and the range despite inefficiencies: more batteries, larger vehicle envelope, etc.

==Four Wheelers==
*[[4 Wheeled Kit Car]]
*[[Conversion kit for VW Beetle]]
*[[Sundancer]] or [http://motortrend.com/roadtests/classic/112_0405_archive/ Sundancer] 1970-73 Mckee chassis #1-#3.
*[[Copper Electric Town Car]] another McKee chassis concept EV
*[http://www.greatchange.org/footnotes-1-liter-car.html VW Vortex] 1+1 seating, 4 wheeler.
*[http://www.austin-rover.co.uk/index.htm?townshustlerf.htm The Hustler] modular concept devised by William Towns in July 1978 to demonstrate that such a car could be viable for low-volume production